# Kappa-SIgma-Attendance-Process-Lean-Six-Sigma-Analysis

Kappa Sigma is a nationally recognized fraternity who Nu Alpha chapter is present at Cal Poly San Luis Obispo. It is part of the interfraternity council here and hosts over 70 active members plus 6 members on the executive council. The activities that we do include, community service events, fundraising projects, pledge process, chapter meetings. Thus, our most if not all of our activities are event like and require good attendance and therefore a good attendance recording process.
The current attendance recording process is a five-step process that involves students entering and getting seated, call for meeting to begin, a security code being displayed on projector screen, brothers virtually entering code on cellular devices and finally attendance is recorded via GIN software. The process, however, is too slow and also inaccurate as the number of brothers in presence is generally different to what is recorded. It is necessary for Kappa Sigma fraternity that attendance is measured accurately and timely, thus I decided to observe and improve this process using the insights from lean six sigma.
The main insights I gathered from my investigation were that my process had 5 major steps and was an overall lengthy process with step 4 taking the longest. Moreover, I learnt that the recording process was also inaccurate continuously with the major problem being brothers not in attendance being recorded as present. The regression analysis showed that that these two issues, a lengthy time and increased inaccuracies/defects had a strong positive correlation.
I decided to analyse and improve the main problem causing inaccuracies, which was brothers who were absent being recorded as present. Furthermore, by decreasing the number of defects, we could further decrease the process time as well. The cause and effect diagram showed that there were many causes to the problem, however the solution selection matrix showed, implementation of a new software would be most advantageous. Lastly the corrective action matrix and project closeout provided steps to implement the solution, and the best practices tool allowed for transfer of information for the masses.
I chose to analyse this process as proper recording of attendance is key for our events because it allows Kappa Sigma to know which brothers are active or not. Moreover, the project helps decrease process time which additionally saved the organization money as stated in the project charter.
